Book Reviews 205

DOI 10.1007/s00712-003-0611-z

Arora, A., Fosfuri, A., and Gambardella, A.:Markets for Technology – The

Economics of Innovation and Corporate Strategy. XI, 338 pp. MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass. 2001. Hardcover £ 23.95.

This book provides a much needed examination of the economics of markets for technology and addresses the question ‘‘[u]nder what conditions will technology itself resemble a tradable asset, and if it does, what will be the consequences for the generation and use of new technologies, for the dif- fusion of technology, and for public policy and business strategy?’’ (p. 281). The authors estimate that there are about $35–50 billion of technology transactions per year and that this volume is increasing. They indicate that the most developed markets are in electronics and electronic components, business services, and chemicals.

The book begins with some in-depth examples of markets for technology drawn from the chemical processing, software, biotechnology and semi- conductor industries. The authors then provide a nice review of the literature that discusses cognitive and organizational factors that make it difficult to codify and transfer knowledge to groups and across firm boundaries. These factors, which are typically significant in technology transactions, are im- portant in explaining the impediments that exist to markets for technologies and for identifying how and in what situations such markets are likely to exist. The industrial structure that results is discussed as the ‘‘division of innovative labor.’’

The book then discusses certain aspects of technology markets focusing, in particular, on some of the previous work of the authors. Chapter 5 proposes a solution to solve the intertemporal opportunism problem characteristic of the sale of hard-to-verify technologies. The ‘‘hostage-taking’’ solution exploits complementarity between know-how and a more easily verifiable input such as a patent. The licensee contracts for both a patent and associated know- how. The licensee makes an initial lump sum payment before the know-how is transferred but withholds a second payment until the know-how is satis- factorily transferred. The licensor has the option of withdrawing the patent if the second payment is not made. This solution is developed in the context of a complete information contracting model. Arora (1995) provides a more formal treatment and extends the model to encompass a limited form of information asymmetry.

Chapter 6 provides a model (based on Bresnahan and Gambardella 1998) that supports the intuitive point that ‘‘all else held constant, markets for technology are more likely to arise when the breadth of potential


206 Book Reviews

applications is larger and there are many distinct potential uses of a given technology,’’ (p. 145) A number of ‘‘general purpose technologies’’ (technologies that can be used in numerous applications) are described to illustrate this point.

The next chapter examines incentives to license potential entrants in the presence of two technology holders, which contrasts with the tradi- tional emphasis on a monopolist technology holder’s incentive to license. The model involves a two-stage game in which two differentiated prod- uct technology holders first decide on how many potential entrants to license and then all market participants compete in the product market. Increased competition in the product market (e.g., more homogeneous products) is found to increase licensing. Another interesting result is that the presence of an (upstream) research firm without manufacturing capa- bility induces firms with manufacturing capability to increase licensing activity. A more general version of this model is found in Arora and Fosfuri (1999).

Chapter 8 extends the basic logic developed in the earlier chapters to technology investment in developing countries and predicts an increase in investment when first-world markets are characterized by a division of in- novative labor that includes specialized upstream technology firms. They find empirical support for their predictions in data on chemical process technol- ogies in 38 developing countries. (See Arora, Fosfuri, and Gambardella, 2001.)

The final chapters on implications for strategy and policy provide a number of insights and observations but are less successful than the other parts of the book. The bulk of these insights is known by scholars familiar with the literature. The value-added is in the discussion of the implications of the work of the authors.

Although the book provides a good introduction to the work of the authors, it does not provide a comprehensive or critical discussion of work relevant to the market for technologies. For example, the voluminous liter- ature on the economics of licensing gets very limited treatment. Thus, the book provides a valuable, but somewhat narrow, perspective. Parts of the book provide a good introduction to the subject for noneconomists, while other parts seem more appropriate to specialists.

Broad coverage necessarily requires some selection and omission of topics. A few other limitations that the reader should be aware of are:

1) The models and discussion substantially underemphasize the impor- tance of asymmetric information in technology transactions. Innovation

Book Reviews 207

is a source of asymmetric information and of competitive advantage. Secrecy and the fear of expropriation is therefore a critical impediment to transactions – especially regarding unpatented know-how – because it introduces valuation and contracting issues.

2) The bulk of examples and empirical work are from chemical, phar- maceutical, semiconductor, and software industries, with a somewhat greater emphasis on chemicals. Chemical and pharmaceutical industries are characterized as having strong patents while the other industries arguably have middle-range intellectual property protection. Thus, examples from these industries do not provide a balanced view of markets for technology in general. Results about the markets for tech- nology need to be interpreted in this light.
2) Because of the enormous possible scope of the enterprise the authors decided to ignore company acquisitions and strategic alliances. Acquisitions and strategic alliances could provide channels through which some of the transactions problems discussed in the book are circumvented. It is difficult to provide a big picture for corporate strategywhentheseoptionsarenotdiscussed.Thus,thebookisonlyable to provide selective insights into strategy with respect to technology exchange across firmboundaries.

Markets for Technologyprovides a thought-provoking and insightful treat- ment of this complex area. It fills a gap in the literature and is an important book for scholars who care about the economics of R&D.

References

Arora, A. (1995): ‘‘Licensing Tacit Knowledge: Intellectual Property Rights and

the Market for Know-how.’’ Economics of Innovation and New Technology4: 41–59.

Arora, A., and Fosfuri, A. (1999): ‘‘Licensing the Market for Technology.’’CEPR

Discussion paper no. 2282. London: Center for Economic Policy Research. Arora, A., Fosfuri, A., and Gambardella, A. (1996): ‘‘Division of Labor and the

Transmission of Growth.’’ CEPR Discussion Paper no. 474. London: Center for

Economic Policy Research.

Arora, A., Fosfuri, A., and Gambardella, A. (2001): ‘‘Specialized Technology Sup-

pliers, International Spillovers and Investment: Evidence from the Chemical Industry.’’ Journal of Development Economics65: 31–54.

Bresnahan, T.F., and Gambardella, A. (1998): ‘‘The Division of Inventive Labor and

the Extent of the Market.’’ In General Purpose Technologies and Economic- Growth, edited by E. Helpman. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.

D. A. Yao, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA
